What can I tell you about this week's
banger? Seth Klarman, legendary value
investor [music]
out of Baupost
Group. What a fascinating discussion
about risk, about the current
environment, about the Boston Red Sox,
about just about anything that affects
portfolios,
distressed assets, stocks, bonds, real
estate. I thought this was fascinating
and I know you will also. [music] With
no further ado, my conversation with
Seth Klarman.
>> [music]
>> Seth Klarman, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> It's so great to be here. Thank you,
Barry.
>> Thank you so much. I've been looking
forward to this for for forever.
Before we get into your investment
philosophy and the development of of
Baupost, I have to roll back a little
bit to to your early days. Economics
from Cornell, an MBA from Harvard. What
was the original career plan?
>> So, I was always drawn to investing.
Even when I was
very young kid, I was interested in the
baseball statistics. I became aware that
there were these other columns of
numbers in the newspaper and asked my
neighbor what those were and started to
understand and follow the stock market a
little bit. So, of course I had no idea
what I was doing, but I was paying
attention from quite early age.
I didn't really ever develop a career
plan, but I was drawn to the stock
market. I I think I I've I'm drawn to
puzzles, Barry.
>> Yeah.
>> I like doing word puzzles every day. I
like solving math puzzles. I subscribe
still to something called
a math puzzle book published by Dell.
And
stock market's a big puzzle. The
financial markets are a big puzzle. How
does it all work? And how does the
performance of the companies get
reflected in stock prices? And how can
an investor outperform everybody else?
And so, all of that is a piece of what
what drew me in.
>> So, I'm interested in in how you first
found that beyond the newspaper stock
price pages. You grew up in Baltimore,
your parents divorced when you were
relatively young. Mom was an English
teacher, later a psychiatric social
worker. Dad was a health economist at at
John Hopkins and NYU. Was it just simply
thumbing [snorts] through the sports
pages literally to the next set of
pages were the stocks pages?
>> That's literally the the numbers on the
page attracted my attention. Um I would
say, you know, I think my origin story
is a lot like other people in who ended
up in the investing business like Warren
Buffett, like I think Todd Combs,
like many others.
Drawn to small businesses, wanted to
make money. So, I was delivering
newspaper route for the Baltimore Sun
papers.
I had a snow cone stand in my driveway
one summer. I mowed lawns, I raked
leaves, I shoveled snow. I did little
carnivals for the neighborhood kids,
whatever. Um I sold candy at religious
school on the
on Tuesdays and Thursdays because the
kids were starving after school. And I
would buy it up over the weekend and
bring it to school and sell it for a for
an arbitrage profit. Um so, it was just
the pattern of being drawn to small
business and making money. And over
time, that led to an interest in stock
market. I bought my first stock with
some bar mitzvah money when I was around
10 years old.
>> Well, couldn't have been bar mitzvah
money if you
>> It wasn't bar mitzvah money then, it was
a present. But then bar mitzvah money
continued to be piled piled in.
>> 10 years old and
>> I bought a share of Johnson & Johnson.
>> Uh-huh. Still have it?
>> Uh do not still have it. It split three
for one, but ultimately I presumably
have traded that in for something else
that that I that I like better.
>> So, so let's fast forward a little bit
to the
Bapu's origin story, which isn't that
far ahead. You're only 25. The urban
legend is you co-found Bapu's, but
reality you were brought in to manage
money for the four founding families.
Still at 25, that that's a kind of
shocking thing. Oh, we have all this
wealth. Let's bring in this kid to run
our portfolio.
>> Right. And and I I would say the same
thing. If if I were if I were in their
seats, I would wonder if how does this
kid know how to do that. Um
so, I I don't think people should
generally be starting investment firms
at age 25, and of course, I really
didn't start the firm. The firm was in
the process of being created. The four
clients of the firm that came together,
the founders, had the idea that they
would build a firm that might go um and
make investments itself, might hand
money to others who were in the business
already of making investments. So, I
think they wanted to build kind of a an
institutional structure framework for
how to have make sure the money got
managed well given what was then back in
the early '80s a highly fraught time as
as you know from history.
Um the volatile markets, uh long history
of underperformance of the stock market,
and and real economic uncertainty,
stagflation um at some point, and and
getting worse. Treasury bond yields were
getting higher and higher. So, it was a
really fraught moment. And I think they
wanted to make sure that the money they
had not only was kept intact, but was
accounted for,
uh clip the coupons, and collect the
dividends, and all of that.
The founders were all selling businesses
around that time. So, the serendipity
was I was a student at business school.
Bill Poorvu, the PO of Balpost, was my
real estate professor. And he and some
friends were selling Channel 5. He was a
big investor in that, the Metromedia
largest sale at the time of a TV station
to Metromedia. It was the ABC affiliate
in Boston. A third friend had a computer
publishing and consulting business. All
that was getting sold. So, they had this
pile of $27 million.
And the basic job offer I got wasn't
come run a fund. It was come join us and
let's figure out smart things to do with
the money.
>> So, eventually
you become the the lead partner there. I
don't know if CEO CEO is the right term.
>> I wasn't CEO for the first seven or so
years. And then I became CEO and
effectively got control of the firm
as a sort of a handshake deal where we
agreed that if I worked hard and did
well for the clients that they would
recognize that with a stake in the
business. So, I had no stake the day it
was formed and ended up with over half.
>> Um ended up with over half. That's
amazing. Um 40 something years later.
>> now much less because I
>> [clears throat]
>> I'm a big believer in sharing the pie
with my team.
>> Mhm. Makes a lot of sense. Let's talk a
little bit about the timing. You
mentioned there was a lot of turmoil and
stagflation
the previous 16 years. I want to say the
inflation adjusted returns were
something like down 75% 66 to 82.
Something along those lines. 82 was the
beginning of a historic bull market. How
did that affect how you thought about
risk? How you thought about
opportunities? What were you What did
the markets look and feel like
in in 82 when I imagine most people were
still pretty bearish.
>> Yes, so I I think Malcolm Gladwell would
look and say 1982, what an interesting
time to start an investment firm. That
certainly was a wind at your back in
terms of being successful. The
challenges and you know you know this
how it works in the markets is you had
no idea that you were at the beginning
of a long bull market. You What you felt
was the market hasn't done that well for
a very you know for a long period of
time and people were very skeptical
about it and you could always point to I
think this is probably valuable insight
is you could always point to things at
any moment that don't add up, that seem
overvalued, that seem risky
and yet we get through most of those
things. So at the time it didn't feel
like a gimme, it didn't feel like a a
layup hand
but what what ended up happening was you
know we tried to make money apart from
the market. We weren't buying an index,
indexes weren't big then anyway. We
weren't buying the market. We're buying
idiosyncratic situations looking for
situation bottom up by bottom up
mispricings and that led to us building
a record. So while it looks just okay
compared to the market over that period
of time
I think we would have done okay whether
the market had been up, down or
sideways.
>> Really really interesting. So so given
you're coming off of what was an epic
bear market and just a whole lot of
cross currents, stagflation, super high
rates under Volcker. You're not that far
away in 82
from the end of Vietnam, Watergate, all
that malaise.
Um how did that environment affect you
as a professional investor? How did that
change how you looked at the world and
what lessons did you take from it?
>> I would tell you I think every investor
needs to be a student of history that we
it it may not repeat exactly but it
certainly rhymes and it is very valuable
to understand and I think especially
financial history for an investor.
So, what are the worst moments? How did
it How did we go through a market crash
in 19 1929 to 1933 and a Great
Depression that lasted close to a
decade? What What must that have been
like for the people at the time? How
would one um handle oneself if you're
going into a period like that that we
know that even the greatest um acclaimed
value investor of all time, Benjamin
Graham, nearly went broke twice during
that era. So, it's I think incumbent on
all investors to be
thinking and maybe holding multiple
inconsistent thoughts in their head at
the same time that I found this
interesting opportunity today, this
bargain price stock for whatever reason
it's out of favor, they cut their
dividend, it's a spin-off, it's a
bankrupt uh security that's converting
into a new equity. Th- These things tend
to get mispriced, but you've got a
backdrop of from time to time as we
Today, we have a backdrop of very
expensive market and a bit of euphoric
conditions. Is that dangerous? It's
dangerous, but we're also at the cusp of
maybe a groundbreaking new technology.
So, I think over the 40 years, it's
always been some of both that you've got
a backdrop of something, sometimes very
depressed, sometimes very optimistic,
but you've also got individual
securities that are fluctuating around,
maybe creating bottom-up opportunity.
What I deeply believe is that value
investors make money staying in the
bottom-up that you might have a top-down
view, you might say, "Yeah, this could
be a bubble, it could be a problem." But
bottom-up is where you're going to
devote your time. It keeps you anchored
that if you have a portfolio of
bargains, you're probably going to do
okay if you stress tested them and if
you've been intellectually honest about
them and they really are bargains.
>> So, you mentioned Ben Graham. I'm
curious as to who else were important
influences on the development of your
investment philosophy? I I've read uh
about Michael Price and Max Heine.
Who affected you the most over the
years? Who Who still affects you?
>> Right. So,
I think reading um Ben Graham was
certainly a a major influence on me. I
think as he as he has been on
essentially everybody in the value
investing community. And then Warren
Buffett, the real-life practitioner of
Graham as well.
And it was always um heartening to know
that somebody like Buffett who seemed to
think similarly to how I thought thought
about downside risk, thought about the
need to stay focused in individual
companies and not worry so much about
the overall market, the willingness to
hold cash, and it it it
um concurrently like the willingness to
not have an opinion on everything. I
have a lot of ideas and I end up with no
opinion, no position. But once in a
while we find something that seems way
off the beaten path that's really
interesting. So, to watch Warren Buffett
do that, um I've realized now that
Warren probably had a certainty of the
idea that he would compound capital over
a long period of time. And I think that
that that is something that Graham
probably gave Warren gave me as well.
The idea that if you protect on the
downside, if you don't find yourself
getting margin calls, frozen in place
because you're too exposed, um or or or
um
getting massive redemptions because
you're down so much, if you can position
yourself that way, it can leave you in a
position to play offense when even your
best competitors might be not on the
playing field. And that's a huge
advantage. So, I think that
Graham and Dodd is kind of a North Star.
Kind of is a place where you can stay
focused on what something's worth. You
can ignore the herd, you can ignore the
siren song of of growth at any price and
of of exciting new technologies and
exciting IPOs, and you could ignore all
that because you have a confidence that
I own something that's going to be worth
more a year or two from now than it is
today. And that's, I think, the
that's an underpinning that lets you
follow a value investment strategy.
>> So so you mentioned downside risk and
that we we referred to before you began
in 1982,
less than a decade later, you published
Margin of Safety, 1991.
What led to you at at the ripe old age
of 34 to write a book
on risk management? What was the
motivation? How was it initially
received? Because it's become so sought
after these days, what was the initial
reception like?
>> Yeah. So,
I think in retrospect it looks pretty
darn presumptuous. Um I got asked to
write it by a classmate from business
school who worked at HarperCollins
at the time or Harper and Row maybe
before HarperCollins. Um
and
she had seen some of my client letters.
She said, you know, you seem like you'd
be a good writer and you're a smart guy,
maybe you'll have something to tell the
audience.
I I What I really thought was I'm just
updating Intelligent Investor for a for
modern examples and a contemporary um
market that that's decades since that
book was written. Um and I thought maybe
I'd make it a little bit more accessible
for for the average Joe. Um I don't know
whether it accomplished that, but that's
what I was trying to do. Um I had no
idea if I I I did I I didn't think I
would make money from writing the book.
I mean,
as you as an author, you know, we get
like a buck fifty an hour,
but it's it's a great feeling and it's
it's a ton of work, but I think
ultimately worth it. And you get smarter
from the act of writing about what you
do. You can do what you what you do all
day long without
maybe fully forming the philosophy, but
if you want to share it with anybody
else, it makes you think more clearly
about what you do.
>> Yeah, the
former librarian of Congress, Daniel
Boorstin, used to say, "I write to
figure out what I think." And there's a
lot of truth to that. What was the
initial reception like? Did people
respond [clears throat]
or did it kind of land in a handful of
value geeks bought it, but no one else?
>> So, it's somewhere in between. What what
happened first was I think my editor got
fired three different times, so I kept
getting new editors.
Um they had promised to back the book
with advertising and they didn't. So,
the book landed with a bit of a thud. I
think it had maybe a very tiny second
printing. So, I think they printed maybe
7,000 um copies. Um I ended up buying a
bunch of them back from HarperCollins at
by by the time they took it off the
market and the rights somehow reverted
back to me.
What it did do though, it was bought
I I think significantly by competitors
who used it to train their teams.
And that was also like, is that what I
wrote it for? Cuz I'm I I don't mind,
but it it wasn't maybe the starting
goal. The starting goal was I I write if
you go back to the book, the first half
of it was about the street and about how
they treat the average investor and
maybe the the challenge of whether the
investor's getting a good deal, and the
second half is maybe an investment
approach, a value-oriented approach, and
how an investor might think about doing
that even if they're not a professional
investor. So, it was it was successful
um I I in a weird way, it's sort of
because it didn't get republished, it
developed a bit of a cult following, and
that's kind of
amusing and interesting to me.
Um and of course I I've we've reprinted
some on our own. So we made it available
to our clients and to summer interns and
to anybody that's connected to the firm.
>> So in 2023 the seventh edition of
Security Analysis Ben Graham's framework
for investing was edited by you and in a
lot of ways substantially
rejiggered. How different is this
version than
Ben Graham's? I mean obviously the
market's changed, the economy is so much
is different than when he was writing.
How did you approach this?
>> So the earliest earlier edition, the
sixth edition, I was co-editor with with
Jim Grant and Bruce Greenwald and the
seventh edition they asked me to just
edit that one.
As editor we didn't follow the process
that you might follow
because we kind of thought of Security
Analysis as the Bible and we thought we
should leave it alone. And what we
should do is have modern-day expert
investors write commentary about the
different chapters, different sections
of the book. So that's what we did. So I
think the sixth edition and the seventh
both have some really great selections
by investors, some of whom are well
known but some of whom aren't known at
all. And you know my former colleague
David Abrams is one of them.
David's
contribution in the sixth edition is one
of the most brilliant things I've ever
read. And so I felt like we were making
we were moving Graham and Dodd into a
different era. The thing that's
beautiful about Graham and Dodd is
written 100 years ago give or take and
it was written during the depression and
things that made sense in a depression
haven't made sense every day since then
because we haven't been in a depression
most of the time since then if if at
all.
So it was an update taking what's
valuable, why people revere the book as
a Bible, but also making it more
accessible and more relevant modern day.
Um I we expanded it to cover some topics
that weren't covered. It certainly has
more international investing, which
wasn't really focused on by Graham. It
talks about some other private
investments. It talks about um some of
the some of the changes in financial
markets, the latest manias and fads and
all of that, but also the changes in
market structure, the changes in in
asset classes that have come into
existence. And all of that, I think, is
a valuable updating of the literature
and and helps keep something relevant
that deserves to be relevant while
updated because in its original
Graham and Dodd 1934 form wouldn't be
very useful to people.
>> Really really interesting. Um so so
let's talk a little bit about the way
you think of opportunities
and risks.
During the '08-'09 financial crisis,
you raised about $4 billion
in the research I read, you were
deploying $100 million a day into
distressed assets. That seems like a big
chunk of money. First of all, are are
those numbers remotely accurate? Is that
ballpark?
>> It's ballpark. What what I would tell
you first of all is we had been closed
for new clients much of our history, but
we kept a list in case. And so when the
market started to fall apart after Bear
Stearns and then after Lehman,
there were all kinds of things going on
and people were in great stress as as we
entered the the uncertainty of an
economic decline that could have pretty
epic proportions. As it turned out, it
probably was it certainly was the worst
decline since the Great Depression. And
um it it's it's stands out as as kind of
the mother of all bear markets for for
anybody in in the last 100 years. So,
the challenge was
maybe it's time to take some capital and
the odds are increasing every day that
we're going to be able to deploy it
fruitfully. So, what you said is about
right.
>> So, Bear Stearns, if I'm remembering
correctly, was spring of uh 2007, Lehman
was September of '08. That's not a lot
of time from there until March of '09
when everything really bottomed. I have
three questions about this. The first is
how quickly were you able to raise
capital, get the docs signed, and be
prepared to deploy that as opportunities
arose? Doesn't seem like there's a lot
of time.
>> The team worked heroically and we were
able to raise about
very we were able to raise very
significant capital within a quarter.
>> Wow, that's really quickly. Now, you
mentioned the team. I have heard some
really interesting rumors and legends.
How did you put this team together? What
was their marching orders? How did
everybody operate in that period of
absolute turmoil and mayhem?
>> So, we already were an established firm.
Uh we'd been up and running for for, you
know, a couple of decades by then. So, I
had a team in place and um
they were deeply knowledgeable,
experienced, um
>> Distressed asset expertise on in the
group?
>> We Not everybody on the team has that,
but a very high percentage of the team
has that. And people at Baupost like
being versatile athletes, so we're
nimble, we're agile, and we cross-train.
Um just kind of like baseball teams are
doing now in the minor leagues. They
don't want you to just be a third
baseman. They also want you to play
outfield and maybe second if need be.
And so, the same with us that we are
people that sit in four different
groups, as you mentioned,
um but all of them can work on
distressed situations. And people on in
the private investments, especially,
love when we're super busy in the public
markets, and we call them in to work on
a distressed credit.
>> So,
big chunk of capital, very aggressively
deployed in a moment in time when so
many people seem to be just paralyzed
and frozen with fear,
was it just the value analytical
framework, or was it a little broader
and deeper than that?
>> Yeah, I think, Barry, that that the way
you're conveying it probably comes
across as we come in with giant satchels
of money and hand-over-fist deploy it.
It wasn't like that at all. It was the
same
cerebral, methodical, painstaking
environment that we do every day. So, we
see things trading at lower prices, and
we notice that, and we look at the
fundamentals, and everything we do at
Oaktree outpost is bottom-up. Nothing's
top-down. We're not saying, "Probably a
good time to be a contrarian." None of
that. We're saying, "Oh, I can buy this
bond at 70 that I think is covered at
par. I think people are worried, maybe
it could have a blip or have a problem
for a while, but people aren't really
doubting that that there's something
there." I think as the economy got
worse, people may have started to doubt
more and more. Prices come in more and
more, and so we're literally able to buy
mortgage securities, residential
mortgage securities. We're able to buy
corporate debt, especially at the auto
fincos, the financial arm of of General
Motors and Chrysler,
um and Ford. And uh that that
Lehman goes broke, and that had pieces
within its capital structure that got
very interesting. So, we're seeing all
kinds of things, and we're kind of kids
in a candy store. Um
sadly, right? It's a tough time, people
are hurting, but also as an investor,
you're fiduciary, and you've got to put
money to work where you're going to
benefit your clients. So, we're in every
case stress testing, "Hey, if the world
got even worse. Hey, if this turned out
to be, you know, 1933,
will this investment be okay?" And
that's the only place where we're we're
we're making decisions is if the
downside is protected, and if we can see
lots of paths to winning, then we're
very interested. So, we found a lot to
do in distressed. We also owned
equities. We also found private
investments, and there were just all
kinds of things worth doing in that era.
The challenge in investing, I think, for
everybody is
you want to make sure that you know
those environments are going to happen
once in a while, and you need to make
sure you don't blow up during them, and
if possible, you need to make sure that
you'll have capacity to buy when the
best opportunities become available, and
maybe your competitors are sidelined.
And so, that's the moment that I think
investors need to at least have in their
heads, "How are you going to handle that
environment?" Because if you're too
exposed, if you're getting margin calls,
if you're getting massively redeemed cuz
you took the wrong clients and they're
short-term oriented, then you're going
to be out of commission on that day. So,
to be around on that day and be able to
do what we do, we just did the same
thing we do every day, we did a little
bigger size.
>> So, I'm kind of fascinated by the
dynamic tension between
fundamental bottoms-up research on a
credit or equity by credit or equity
basis versus the top-down.
I know you've said that you really don't
think about markets or investing from a
top-down perspective, but it seems that
everybody who
panicked, everybody who helped create
those distressed assets were either
responding or over-responding
to the top-down environment. How do you
look at that sort of environment?
>> Yeah, there there's several layers to
that. First of all, I think people were
responding to all kinds of things. They
were responding to
redemption requests by their mutual fund
shareholders. They were responding to
credit downgrades. So that it wasn't
just I'm nervous that things are going
to be bad. This bond is no longer
investment grade and maybe my mandate is
I can only own investment grade bonds.
Or this bond has defaulted and I can no
longer hold this bond. So you have force
selling all over the place and force
selling is
you never want to be a force seller and
you especially want to be able to buy
from force sellers in any asset class if
if that comes along.
What I would say is
I think that like and I'm not a mountain
climber or you know, big hiker.
But if you're going to climb a mountain
you want to look bottom-up. You want to
understand is this the right trail? Is
this safe? Um do I have my equipment? Am
I prepared? And then you also want to
have the top-down view. What's the
weather? And what if it suddenly gets
snowy up there?
Um if the wind's 60 miles an hour, how
am I going to handle that? And so you
kind of want to have in your head the
weather forecast. And I think I I I I
know that I'm always thinking about
is this environment safe? In today's
market
it feels stretched, but it also feels
like we're on the brink of an incredibly
an unprecedented technology and an era
that might be one of very substantial
prosperity, but also one of risk to
society and great change.
So bottom-up still feels like the right
way to invest. But it feels like you
still need your eye on the weather. In
the financial markets that means
where's the GDP going and what's the
national debt and where's inflation
going to take us? So, I always have an
eye on that stuff, but we're not we're
not investing our portfolio based on
that the same way we don't invest based
on a macro view that this country would
be a good place to invest in. Rather, we
notice a security bottom-up and say,
"Wow, that seems egregiously mispriced.
I wonder if there are more mispricings.
Maybe we should look at that market a
little bit closer."
>> So, let's talk a little bit about cash.
I think a lot of investors look at cash
as a drag on their performance. The net
return is
uh
usually zero or close to zero relative
to inflation.
How do you think of cash? It's always
been such a historically important part
of your toolkit. Um
what sort of optionality does it create
versus the career pressure of staying
fully invested at all times?
>> So, you're nailing it with your
question. You've covered all the parts
of holding cash. I think that
cash can be valuable optionality.
Especially, just imagine you have a
reasonably concentrated portfolio, a
large position or two comes off the
books, should you put it to work in a
nanosecond or can you wait till
something really interesting comes
along? So, that's the origin of us
holding cash. Positions would come off
and we'd hold some cash until something
great came along.
>> But but not just a couple of percent.
You've throughout history
>> with concentrated positions, we have 5
and 10% positions in the portfolio. When
two or three of them come off, cash goes
from next to nothing to 15 or 20%. So,
that's the origin. That's how we got
started with the idea that we would hold
some cash from time to time.
I think though I would accept that I
almost certainly made a mistake in that
holding cash to that extent. There were
times when we 30% cash and even higher
and I viewed it as valuable optionality.
The problem is the optionality didn't
pay off very well for big swaths of
time, especially since '08 that we with
suppression of interest rates and the
Fed printing a lot of money and the US
running large deficits that we really
haven't had a serious downturn in almost
two decades. And so that amount of cash
became painful.
I I think that the argument for holding
cash when the client says, "I'm not
paying you to hold cash." My answer
would be "I'm not getting paid to hold
cash. I'm getting paid to use my
judgement on when to deploy the money
and in what to deploy it." So, I feel
like that's right. But I felt like I was
not optimizing for our clients in an
environment that stopped being as
volatile as the one I'd grown up in. So,
we changed our strategy somewhat. We
made our liquid books more liquid,
especially our public equity book, where
we used to own up companies with, you
know, 500 million or billion-dollar
market cap. Now we own much bigger
market cap holdings on average. That
liquidity in the public equity book has
made us feel better that we can pivot on
a dime with a large percentage of our
book, so we don't need as much cash to
be able to take advantage of a sudden
opportunity that shows up.
>> A A lot of larger equity
um funds, when they're sitting in cash,
they use the spider ETFs. They'll roll
into spy. So, they're not falling behind
a benchmark. Uh and then it's deep and
liquid if they want to deploy that. In a
momentum market, is that a bad strategy
or you just adding risk to avoid the
the cash risk?
>> We think about our benchmark as an
absolute return, not a relative return.
So, we're not very interested in keeping
up with the market. Market's going to do
what it does and especially a market
this concentrated in a handful of names.
It's really been that way for a number
of years with the Fang stocks and um
the handful of names that carry the
market often, not always, but often are
expensive, overpriced. So, we just think
that's not the right way to think about
it. We want to earn absolute return. We
want to beat inflation by hundreds of
basis points. And if we're doing that,
we're not going to worry about whether
that's ahead of the market or behind. I
think over the fullness of time
a good absolute return strategy is going
to beat the market, too.
>> So, let's talk about some of the
opportunity sets that you look at. You
mentioned equities. We talked about
distressed debt. You also make real
estate investments, other private
investments. How do you think about
capital allocation across these buckets?
Are you using percentage terms or are
you just purely opportunistic?
>> So, we came about these through our
experiences. We didn't just wake up one
day and said, "Let's be in four
different areas." Rather, we noticed
that over the transom, interesting
private investments were coming into the
portfolio. We're getting phone calls.
"Hey, would you ever Would you inject
capital into this business? Or would you
buy this portfolio of of
venture investments from a failed
company that needed to sell them? Or
would you buy 22% of a company owned by
largely 78% by a large Middle Eastern
company and 22% up for sale. Would you
buy that?" Well, at three times EBITDA,
maybe you would. So, literally, by
seeing examples one at a time,
bottom-up, we started to figure out that
there were more things to focus on than
just the public equity markets. And so,
we got drawn
One of our specialties, I think, is
distressed credit, and we became really
good at it. We've got smart people.
We're very patient. Sometimes there's
nothing to do. There's nothing
distressed. Other times there's a
avalanche of opportunity. And so we wait
patiently in all of our areas. We built
teams of versatile people so that
our team is basically a generalist team
and the same person can work on a
private investment, can work on a credit
investment, can work on an equity
investment. Um real estate is is a bit
more specialized than that, but even
within real estate many people have a
land person and a hotel person. We don't
do that. Everybody works at everything.
So we have the team in place and we're
able to respond bottom up. That the
bottom up approach to opportunity I
think lets us allocate capital better
than if we were doing a top-down. That I
think a lot of people will look at
historic returns, will say the expected
return from owning private equity will
be mid-teens or upper teens. The
expected return from venture capital
will be better than that. And we don't
do that. We really don't know what an
asset class is going to do cuz we think
that's very time-specific and very
valuation dependent. Rather we see
we see what's available right this
second and by looking bottom up
opportunity after opportunity, I think
we can paint a really clear picture. So
right this second real estate's been in
tough shape since COVID, especially
commercial office.
And
people started working from home and
that hasn't fully returned. And in
certain markets especially, there's
there's too much space and a lot of
people that have been in real estate
have not done that well. A lot of people
got in at the wrong vintage. And a lot
of properties have become structurally
obsolete. So that sounds like a mess.
Why would you touch it? But it also
means that competition is hardly
looking. And so we think there are
opportunities right now. For example, in
assisted living which is and population
is aging, you can make a very strong
case for fundamentals. Rents haven't
moved up in years and I think there's
probably pent-up growth in rents to
come.
And COVID was obviously a giant problem
because any any facility tended to empty
out as people pulled their relatives out
to save their lives during COVID,
understandably, and a lot of newly built
facilities from that era from 2021, 2022
never got filled, and a lot of them have
hit run into bankruptcy or financial
distress. So, it's been an opportunity
to build a position in area with strong
fundamentals. The past is the past, but
moving forward, it looks like they're
going to have real ramp for rents and
for occupancy. And we're seeing
opportunity here and there to add to a
portfolio of of assisted living.
Similarly, we like we like um certain
parts of the real estate office market,
especially some outside the major cities
um in a few select markets, though. And
we're seeing more in other submarkets
within real estate. The it's a real
estate, as as you know, is a giant
market. It's probably got a market cap
around as big as public equity market.
And so but but it has a very different
capital structure in terms of who are
the players and how much capital can
they tap and the opportunity set. So,
real estate's interesting. We like
looking at it, and we have a team that's
agile and can deploy capital quickly
when something comes along. In private
investments, it's opportunistic um and
so there've been some things to do
lately as capital's pulled back from
private investments, for example, in
energy and um midstream. That's led to
some things that have trickled down to
us that we've been very excited, very
high return, and well-hedged um
so downside protected. So, we're just
opportunistic investors. I would say,
though
the using my top-down lens that you
mentioned
we are certainly nervous. It's we're um
in a
bit of a economic boom, possibly an
inflationary boom. Um, who knows what's
going to happen with the Strait of
Hormuz and the end result of that, and
the demand for AI is uh, and AI-related
investments is so all-encompassing. It's
almost as if the market has said, "We
want the AI winners. We're going to dump
anything that looks like an AI loser,
and maybe we'll throw out some babies
with the bathwater, and we don't care."
And AI-agnostic, we're not looking at
that, either. So, we think there's
opportunity even in in the some
larger-cap, high-quality equities that
are being thrown out as people want to
make the high returns from speculating
in AI right now.
>> We're going to talk a little bit about
the current environment in greater
detail shortly. I I just have to ask one
more question about contrarian
approaches and opportunity
for value investors, the risk is always
a value trap. Sometimes the market's
negative judgment is actually right. How
do you prevent something that's cheap
from sucking you into something that's
on the way to becoming much, much
cheaper?
>> Yeah, you're asking something that we've
had um, a bit of a painful lesson in
over time, which is cheap is not really
a strategy. Um, we tend to look at our
investments not as are they at a
discount from what we think they could
be worth, but rather, what is our
expected go-forward return from here.
And we tend to also ask that our
investments have catalysts,
um, and that when we s- lay out a thesis
in an investment conversation, it's very
clear, not not just w- how undervalued
is it, but why is this going to work?
What's going to drive it? And if we
can't make an argument for why it should
turn around in the next year or two, uh,
it it it it's m- might be nice that it's
trading at a five-year low, but that
doesn't mean it's not going to be at a
7-year low and a 10-year low. And so our
time horizon is not that long. We can't
just hold things that don't perform for
5 or 10 years. I think very very few
people can do it today. And we think
that's not holding our feet to the fire.
All all organizations need to demand
accountability from their teams. So we
always are asking ourselves and and
really I think changed our approach a
little bit where
we're asking a different question about
what is going to drive this the success
of this investment rather than just
letting a cheap being enough. It's not
enough.
>> Very very interesting. So
we've we've touched briefly on things
affecting today's environment, price of
oil, inflation, we have a Middle East
war, we're still dealing with a new set
of tariffs. It seems like every week
there's a different macro
headache. How do you think about the
current environment?
Is it something that
has to be dealt with but sort of
compartmentalized?
Is it something that have to be dealt
with and compartmentalized or do you uh
just look at it as yet another input
into fundamental values?
>> So I think AI is a sea change um and
that I'm not a tech guy and I'm
not a a
a personal user at the cutting edge of
technology.
But I've spent a huge amount of time. I
think that the advent of AI
has forced me and probably everyone
to just add more time to their day to
stay current. That I've never seen a
technology with this kind of importance
and potential game-changing magnitude.
So um I read everything I get my hands
on. I listen to a lot of podcasts as
well. I read a lot of books and magazine
articles as well. I'm consumed
because even though I don't think
Baupost as a value firm is going to find
too many ways to to get long AI
exposure, I think that we don't want to
not We don't We don't want to be behind
the curve. We don't want to not know
what we don't know. And so
um the team is doing a fabulous job
thinking about AI, thinking about ways
to incorporate it into our processes,
but also especially thinking about the
implications of AI on our portfolio
companies. So I think we have found ways
to have a little bit of long exposure in
things, for example, like data centers,
where we own um a few private
investments at at what we think is a
very considerable discount to where data
centers tend to trade. Um we're not sure
what the right discount is or we're not
really sure what the right long-term cap
rate is,
but we think owning it a significant
discount is a good thing. So we have
some exposure. But mostly we're trying
to own a portfolio
where we have avoided AI losers and
maybe occasionally we found something
that market thinks is an AI loser that
we think isn't. Um and to otherwise have
things with ancillary exposure to AI,
where we can turn into AI winners, but
not pay much for the privilege. So it's
it's a piece of what we do. Um in the
meantime, obviously you referred to
tariffs and the pres- the volatility of
the president and this administration,
there are things coming out of left
field all the time.
Uh some of it is policy, some of it is
distraction, I think maybe deliberate
distraction, and it's very hard to to
deal with that. I think most investors
and I, too, have said, "I need to make a
mental note of it. I need to think about
who I want to vote for next time there's
an election, but I also need to to not
get distracted by this." Um and most of
it doesn't end up mattering on a on a
investment by investment basis. So
it is a time of tremendous change, high
degrees of volatility, and you see the
volatility of stock by stock volatility
is unbelievable. That when they love a
stock, it it they can't get enough of it
and it goes through the roof. And when
they turn on a stock, it it gets
clobbered. And so, the individual stock
dispersion is very high, while the
overall market volatility is actually
quite low.
>> Huh, really really interesting. Let's
talk about another
distraction and and what it might might
uh
mean. Um we're recording this a couple
of days before the SpaceX IPO. It'll
broadcast a couple of days after the
SpaceX IPO.
Uh
this is not only a giant trillion-dollar
uh valuation, but it's got a lot of hair
on the deal with this tiny float and the
Nasdaq uh waving the rules to put it
into the Qs. How do you look at an event
like this in terms of the overall
gestalt of the market? Is is I know the
old line is they don't ring a bell at
the top, but at a certain point, how do
you perceive something like this? Does
it trouble you?
>> So, my compliance team is very clear
that I can't talk about individual
securities, and we own we own no SpaceX
privately or in any other form. Um what
I would say to you is I share your sense
that this is the kind of bell that might
ring at the top. Um it it is an
unprofitable company in aggregate. It is
an enormous valuation. I think we all we
both read in the paper this morning the
Goldman estimates of what growth would
have to be in some parts of their
business, like a 100x, in order to
justify the current price.
>> period of time, too.
>> period of time. And those projections
have a way of not happening. Um it it it
is it's not impossible, but it's hard.
Um
I think that that it is um
the I think investors might be missing
just how much money is being sucked out
of the system between large IPOs. This
won't be the last one. Open AI and
Anthropic are coming and there's a ton
of other IPOs that are stuck in
institutional investors' portfolios that
also they'd love if they could get them
off at any point. Um, then the float
might be tiny today, but you have a
large number of shareholders, private
investments. We read again this morning
that 10 or 15% of some endowments um
entire endowment is in the one name,
SpaceX. So, they're going to want to
sell. Employees are going to want to
monetize and go from being
wealthy on paper to wealthy in in a bank
deposit. And so, that's a lot of stock
for sale and we have to sell that stock
while apparently Google and Face book
need more money and where Open AI and
Anthropic need more money and utilities
need more money to power and chip
companies need to build new factories in
America. There's so much demand for
money and I think we're in a vulnerable
place where ultimately supply and demand
for money determines the cost of capital
and that's true in a bond market and
it's in effect true in the stock market.
So,
we might be looking at at some um supply
demand um excess um where prices soften
just because there's so much supply or
of securities and and and the need to to
monetize is so great by these private
companies.
>> So, so let's talk about another
imbalance between uh supply and demands
through history but because Bal Post has
been around for over four decades,
you've
traded and invested through and survived
all sorts of different market regimes.
Inflation, disinflation,
the dot-com bubble, the financial
crisis,
QE and ZIRP, COVID,
and and more recently the return to
let's just call it normalized interest
rates.
Has anything changed since 1982? Is it
just the same careening from one crisis
to another or
do things eventually sort of moderate,
sort of do we learn from these
experiences? What's the same, what's
different?
>> I think that that all investors should
be students of history as we talked
about and I think we know that over the
course of history there's cycles that
you're going to have a cycle where
you're at war and then another cycle
where people are tired of war and you
have peace for a while. At some point
you have peace long enough that people
forget how bad war is and you end up in
another war. And you have those similar
cycles whether it's the government
spending and inflation and deflation,
that sort of thing. Even the nature of
debt that that debt feels great when
nobody's asking you to pay it back or
when interest rates are low. At some
point debt becomes pernicious and a
giant problem. So I think we're likely
to always see those cycles at least as
long as humans are in charge of markets.
Um
how do you navigate it? I think you
navigate it by realizing that you may
not see the cycle with clarity while
you're in it, but you know there's
cycles, you know that what is seems to
be true today for all time probably
won't be true for all time and hold on
to that. So again it goes to the idea of
holding inconsistent ideas in your head
at the same time. This is both true and
likely at some point to become less true
or untrue and you don't know you don't
know exactly how. So how do you how do
you hold a portfolio? You diversify. Um
when things are up a lot and become more
expensive and the go forward return is
low, you take profits. You trade out
when things are out of favor so badly
that that the returns look high,
maybe there's a time to step in and and
buy during a period when others are
dumping. So I think it's it's that. Stay
focused on the bottom up. Remember
broadly the weather, so when you go
camping you don't not prepare
appropriately for stormy days,
not just in the mountains, but in the
financial markets. And look, Baupost
protects on the downside as best we can
by doing deep fundamental analysis, by
knowing our names unbelievably well, by
not being afraid to sell them when the
price is up and the same way same as we
buy more when the price is down, by
finding securities that are maybe more
senior in nature, whether in public or
private markets, and by macro hedging
the [clears throat] portfolio to an
extent because we know that those rainy
days are going to happen and so we're
buying macro protection when balls are
low and people think nothing bad is
going to happen, so we can sell that at
a gain both because the price moved and
because ball moved up during a stormier
moment in the markets.
>> So we now have a new Fed chair and
that's a great leaping off point to talk
about
a lot of skepticism broadly, but you've
been pretty skeptical about Fed policy
since the financial crisis. How do you
think rates have affected investors?
What's been the impact on on behavior
and are we at a point now where rates
have more or less normalized? How do you
look at the present environment?
>> You know, I believe in people taking
responsibility for their actions. I
believe that we are a healthier system
when there's a reckoning for excess and
for, you know, egregious speculation and
for over leverage. So I I of hated that
the Fed took rate
I I I I totally understood why the Fed
took rates down to zero after the great
financial crisis and that it was really
the only way to hold things together,
give time to heal. But by leaving rates
there for an extra decade after there
was no crisis, I think we stoked a
problem. We we sort of incented
speculation and
maybe disincentivized responsibility.
And so we got some of that. We saw that
first hand in 2022 when the market had
gone higher and higher and higher. You
had those SPACs and all kinds of garbage
companies trading at very high prices,
the meme stocks. And then it blew up in
2022. A lot of stocks down, you know,
50, 70, 80, 90, 95%.
Um
and that's what happens when you get
that kind of unregulated speculation.
I think today
we are back speculating. We're
speculating in an era that
in an area that feels more legitimate.
It's hard to say exactly what's going to
happen with the
continued development of
AI, with the possibility of AGI coming,
and what that will mean. We don't know
whether it's going to lead to to massive
unemployment, whether it's going to lead
to incredible prosperity, or whether
it's going to create even more
dispersion in the economy between the
people who are doing well and the people
who are not doing well, K-shaped
economy. And that's a real source of
concern. So there's always going to be
that kind of uncertainty.
I think what we should agree is that
there's going to be a path that nobody
today in 2026 could say with any
precision what things are going to look
like in two or four or 10 years. And the
dilemma with that is people are paying
very high prices as though the future is
extremely predictable and clear. When
obviously given what's going on, it is
anything but that.
>> So, you're a big Boston guy and and you
mentioned you were a big fan of the
sports pages and all the statistics.
Uh what do you think of what's going on
in sports these days? Uh
the Celtics uh didn't didn't go as far
as some people thought. We're we're now
Knicks are up 2-1 in the finals. How how
are you looking at at basketball? What
do you like in sports these days?
>> So, my two biggest sports passions are
um baseball and I'm a small owner in the
Red Sox and horse racing and I've been
fortunate to have some really
high-quality thoroughbreds over the
years. Um and uh we won a few races um
Belmont Stakes weekend, not the Belmont,
but a few other stakes races this past
weekend. So, those are my favorite
sports. I thought the Celtics season was
disappointing. They played so well the
first three quarters of the season and
sadly when their superstar
Jason Tatum came back, I think it got
them out of their game where they were
introducing younger players into the
mix. They were passing the ball a lot
and really winning in an exciting way.
So, maybe the um the chemistry just
didn't go as well as they had hoped and
then when Tatum got hurt right at the
end of the playoffs, we we bowed out. Um
I think sports is is great. It's it's a
place where Americans of uh blue
Americans and and independent Americans
and red Americans can all root for the
same team and can be excited about a
sport and can do it in a way that's
gracious and and uh accept winning, but
also accept losing. Um sports is a great
equalizer and a great unifier. So, I
love sports. It serves a lot of positive
purposes in in a society. It's a little
crazy because we're rooting for
strangers we've never met who represent
our city, but it is it is a powerful way
that I think also can unite a city.
>> So so baseball this year just seems to
be so odd. The The Mets are having a
hard time.
The Red Sox
I don't have no idea what's going to
happen with them this year.
What do you think about what's happening
in baseball in 2026?
>> Yeah, I think that
it is partly a small numbers that we've
only played 60 or 65 or 70 games. So,
still a lot of season to go.
>> But that that's a third of a season, you
know.
>> It's a third of a season, but
statistics, you know, it it things can
>> Mean reversion will eventually catch up.
Is that uh
>> In the same way that I mean all of us
have to decide whether we believe on hot
streaks or not, right? It looks like a
thing. But in fact, is it really a
shooting streak or is it simply And and
and and to every good shooter,
you you get a little overconfident start
taking more shots. It's when you take
>> collapses, right?
>> take high percentage shots and you take
them consistently. So, I I think that
that
baseball will always surprise you. It's
a perplexing game that what you drew up
on paper doesn't happen, but it's it
also doesn't happen in the locker room.
That the players can't understand, I
could hit last year and now I can't hit.
And part of it is that the
opponents adjust. That if you're a
rookie and you're Roman Anthony and you
come up and you hit 300 for 2 months,
he's hurt, but the pitching figures out
your weak spots and they make you look
bad and then you were you adjust and you
make the pitchers look bad. So, I think
there's that perpetual
back and forth between defense adjusting
and then offense adjusting and where it
ends up determines who goes in the Hall
of Fame.
>> Huh. Really really interesting.
You very famously kept a low profile
in a business that has historically
rewarded
publicity. Was that a conscious
decision? Was that a strategic approach?
And why be a little more
um
uh
public these days?
>> So, I'm probably a little bit more
introvert than extrovert. So, I I not
looking to be on TV or in the papers.
I also think a lot of the work we do is
better off when everybody isn't looking
to copy our investments. That if you
want to accumulate a stock, you're
better off if everybody doesn't know
that you're trying to do that. You're
going to get a better price like in any
business transaction.
Um that said, we've never been We're not
a recluse. You know, everybody knows
where we are.
Um everybody knows members of our team.
We're very very well known on the
street. Um you just don't see me on TV
talking about it all the time. Um I
don't know why that's a bad thing. It
feels to me like a good thing.
>> And beyond investing, you and your wife
have been very active uh
philanthropists. Um the Klarman Cell
Observatory, there's been just a run of
different things.
How do you think about philanthropy? How
do you think about capital allocation?
And how do you make sure that the money
that are going to these causes is being
well spent?
>> On our third date, my wife and I were
taking a walk on Cape Cod on the beach
and she said
Um we were just getting to know each
other obviously third date. She said,
"What do you hope for in your life?" I
said, "I hope that if I'm able to
provide for my family and there's still
resources beyond that, I want to give
back." And that just comes from my
fundamental view. I guess it's how I was
raised that some of us are going to be
fortunate and be in that position at a
time when not everybody is. And it's a
both it's both a privilege and a
responsibility to give back. It's It's
um
you can't take it with you.
and you
probably don't want to I mean it's not a
good look to spend it all ostentatiously
in your lifetime. That's not my nature.
So, I've always I think been working for
to make money to give away, and it's
what keeps me focused today that I love
investing as a puzzle, but I love
knowing that if we do it well,
we serve our clients. I'm going to have
money that I'm going to be able to add
to what we give to charity. Charity is a
calling. It feels very, very important
to me personally. I think this is a
broken world.
There are all kinds of problems from
from climate change to to
poor education system
to
challenges to democracy that threaten
America the way you and I have known it
our whole lives, and the country that I
want it you probably want, you know,
future generations to grow up in.
America has been amazing for me. I have
been such a beneficiary of growing up in
this country and having unprecedented
opportunities that if I was in another
country, I wouldn't have had. So, I'm
grateful for that. I want to make sure
everybody has the same chance, but we
also have to be realistic. The American
dream is broken for a lot of people.
People are less likely today to be able
to say that their kids and grandkids
will be able to eclipse them, and and I
think we need to restore that, and we
have a lot of hard work to do. So, our
philanthropy goes into many different
areas. Some as you said in science, some
in terms of thinking about democracy and
making sure that the system holds,
some in terms of health care,
some to the universities that that were
good to me and my wife.
We spread it pretty well because we we
believe that a lot of causes will come
together to be to be able to lift up
people throughout the country. One of
the one of the
things we do is a music instrument fund
because our son is extremely musical and
it reminded us that every kid that is
passionate about music should have a
chance to have an instrument.
We also do
capital gifts in in institutions
throughout Massachusetts in some of the
harder hit towns during COVID or or just
economically depressed areas.
There's just not a lot of money there.
So kind of as a value investor, I'm
seeing an opportunity to refurbish this
civic center or this library in a small
town in Massachusetts and it just feels
great to know that that the people in
Pittsfield will have as good a library
as the people in in Boston.
>> Really interesting. All right, let's
jump to our our favorite questions we
ask all our guests starting with who are
your mentors who helped shape your
career?
>> So I worked for Max Heine and Michael
Price at Mutual Shares right out of
college and that was an incredible
couple of years and they were and I
stayed in close relationship with them
over the years. They've been great
friends and mentors to me. I think
Warren Buffett who I didn't know until
later in my career but reading about
Warren, reading his annual reports and
reading his old shareholder letters was
very inspiring and also reminded me
of of the idea of of quality companies
which was not something that Graham and
Dodd talked that much about but was
something that Warren taught us all
about, I think. So they were they were
the people I would list as mentors and
then I also developed mentors who were
kind of peers that I had a tiny firm. I
didn't get trained officially at any big
Wall Street firm but I was able to form
friendships with people that ran other
funds and some of those people probably
you know all of them but somebody like
Richard Perry or somebody like Frank
Brosens or somebody like um
uh Paul Singer have all been mentors in
various ways over the years.
Um and a way that, you know, hopefully
I've provided something to them as well.
But I think finding kindred spirits out
there makes all of us both enriched by
the experience, but also wiser along the
way.
>> Mhm. Good good answer. Let's talk about
books. You mentioned you're a big
reader. What are you reading now? What
are some of your favorites?
>> So, right now I'm finishing Lloyd
Blankfein's memoir. I'm also reading
Michael Pollan's latest book about
consciousness, which is really
interesting. Um
it's it's um combines some things I'm
intrigued by, including the idea of what
plants are up to. Um plants turn out to
be a lot more conscious and a lot more
aware of their environment than you
might think um when you just walk by
them and think of it as lawn.
There's a lot more going on with plants.
Um
I love history. Um my favorite is
probably Battle Cry of Freedom about the
Civil War.
Um
uh
I I I read a fair amount of everything.
I I love um The Red Queen and
evolutionary biology.
Uh I'm a pretty good reader of fiction
as well, biography, memoir, um across
the board.
>> Um you mentioned podcasts. What are you
listening to or what are you watching
and streaming these days?
>> My favorite streaming, I think this was
this is maybe a golden age of TV
streaming. Um we loved um Pitt
on um
the the Pittsburgh General Hospital
emergency room. And it's just a
remarkable series. Noah Wyley, but also
great and a great surrounding cast is
just off the charts. Uh we also loved um
Shrinking.
>> Yep, that that was a lot of fun. Um
final two questions. What sort of advice
would you give to a recent college grad
interested in a career in investing?
>> Yeah, first of all,
go somewhere that you would want your
capital invested. If you wouldn't put
your money there, don't go there, and
don't be afraid to go somewhere out of
favor. You know, if 2 years ago you
would ask me, I would have said, "Well,
biotech is on a you know, is hitting
lows every day
as though there's never going to be any
new drugs discovered or anything good
happening in that sector." I would have
said, "I'm not sure. I'm not an expert
on that stuff, but take a close look."
Now, it's on fire. A lot of takeovers, a
lot of people are doing really well. I
think that it pays to be a little
contrarian and go somewhere where there
going to be mentors to you, where
they're willing to be patient with you,
where they're not going to just expect
you to make money the first 6 months
you're there. That's where you're going
to be able to build a career and learn a
lot.
>> Huh.
Final question.
What do you know about the world of
markets, risk, investing today would
have been useful to know 40-plus years
ago when you were first getting started?
>> Yeah, I I've thought about that. It's a
really good and hard question, and and
what I think is
I wish I knew the importance of the
economic engine that Silicon Valley is,
that American creativity and ingenuity
is. It's why I worry so much about the
bad things happening in our country like
like that are threatening our democracy.
The ability to try and fail, the ability
to innovate, the desire to innovate, it
it it the
the startups unleash the passion of
brilliant, hard-working people who want
to cause their dream to happen. And that
is that is the driver of this economic
engine that keeps
not only winning, but keeps out pacing
everywhere else in the world. Israel has
maybe a mini version of that, but it
hardly exists in the rest of the world.
Certainly doesn't exist in Europe much,
and it's really sad because the
opportunity that is present for young
Americans to helps to to
dream and to start something is just an
amazing engine for for their lives, for
their communities, for future
philanthropy, for tax receipts. It's
it's across the board. And I wish I'd
understood it better. I would have owned
some venture capital in my foundation. I
would have um been recommending that
that institutional portfolios diversify
into at least a piece. Now, venture
capital is the last thing a value person
is going to say, "It's a bargain. You
should go long." But I do think that as
a value investor, maybe too much
paint-by-numbers, I wasn't focused
enough on the engine that is venture
capital.
>> Fascinating. Seth, thank you for being
so generous with your time. We have been
speaking with Seth Klarman. If you enjoy
this conversation, well, be sure and
check out any of the 651 we've done over
the previous 12 years. You can find
those at Apple, iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever you get
your favorite podcasts. I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the correct
team that helps me put these
conversations together [music] each and
every week. Alexis Noriega is my video
producer. Shawn Russo is my researcher.
Anna Luke is my podcast producer.
I'm Barry Ritholtz. You've been
listening to [music] Masters in Business
on Bloomberg Radio.